# react_learning

## Setting up environment
In order to actually use react and JSX, you must install yarn globally. You can then use yarn to instal babel. Once babel is installed, you can go to your root directory to run `yarn init` which will set up your package.json file which will contain relevant dependencies. to add these dependencies to your package.json file, you can simply do a `yard add`. Specifically for this project, we use `yarn add babel-preset-react@6.24.1 babel-preset-env@1.5.2` which gives us access to react. this also then creates a node_modules folder. This module folder is not included in the repository as of now, but if you pull the project and run yarn install, you should be able to clone that node modules folder. in order to run the project, we installed live server using `yarn global add live-server`. Unsure of how live-server works totally, but when run on a folder, it listens for changes and as you make changes, it'll refresh your server. Because JSX is compiled into vanilla javascript, we use the babel command `babel src/app.js --out-file=public/scripts/app.js --presets=env,react --watch`  to compile src/app.js into public/scripts/app.js. We make sure to use the react and env presets so that babel knows what it's using to compile, and the `--watch` flag sets the terminal up to listen for changes and it recompiles on each change, similar to how live server refreshed on each change. Using both the `--watch` flag and the `live-server public` commands simulataneously allows for a really smooth workflow

## Setting up package JSON
Realistically, using global dependencies is not good since people may not necessarily have those dependencies isntalle.d For this reason, we should stick to local dependencies that can be installed using yarn install or npm install. Other users won't need to worry, but for out purposes, we can do `yarn add react`, `yarn add react-dom`, and `yarn add babel-core`. These set up react and babel such that we can compile react code appropriately. We also will want to serve the app using live server, so we can do that through `yarn add live-server`. As a consequence, any form of running this app locally will require the use of scripts which can be defined in the package.json file.

we also need to `yarn add babel-loader`

## Webpack
Webpack is a handy tool for allowing us to separate our reactjs files into multiple files for simplicity's sake. To set up webpack, we first must do `yarn add webpack` to set up the dependency. We then set up an entry point through a `module.exports { entry:'entry/point' }`. Then we output the file into our public folder useing the output key. 
